# Thursday, April 9, 2020 - Fast Hydraulic Erosion Simulation - GPU
[http://www-ljk.imag.fr/Publications/Basilic/com.lmc.publi.PUBLI_Inproceedings@117681e94b6_fff75c/FastErosion_PG07.pdf](http://www-ljk.imag.fr/Publications/Basilic/com.lmc.publi.PUBLI_Inproceedings@117681e94b6_fff75c/FastErosion_PG07.pdf)

Provides methods, equations, and algorithms for 3D celluar erosion simulation. Alone, I don't think is too helpful - however if the methods described here were paired with soil compaction algrotihms, then we could effectively simulate would long-term tractor compaction would do to the terrain.


What do underground root structures do to the soil compaction? I would imagine this is different between crops - vineyards vs wheat for instance.




## Abstract

Natural mountains and valleys are gradually eroded byrainfall and river flows.  Physically-based modeling of thiscomplex phenomenon is a major concern in producing re-alistic synthesized terrains.  However, despite some recentimprovements, existing algorithms are still computationallyexpensive, leading to a time-consuming process fairly im-practical for terrain designers and 3D artists.In this paper, we present a new method to model the hy-draulic erosion phenomenon which runs at interactive rateson today’s computers.  The method is based on the velocityfield of the running water, which is created with an efficientshallow-water fluid model. The velocity field is used to cal-culate the erosion and deposition process, and the sedimenttransportation process.  The method has been carefully de-signed to be implemented totally on GPU, and thus takesfull advantage of the parallelism of current graphics hard-ware.  Results from experiments demonstrate that the pro-posed method is effective and efficient. It can create realis-tic erosion effects by rainfall and river flows, and producefast simulation results for terrains with large sizes.



