# Saturday, April 18, 2020 - LandLab
https://www.hatarilabs.com/ih-en/modeling-of-soil-erosion-with-landlab-in-python-free-software


Open source python based land / erosion modelling tool! I love it when my work is already 50% complete.

Will need to examine how fine the siulation can be set to for this tool set, I would imagine that we need to be fairly percise if we are trying to describe the effects of pathing on soil (this toolset can model volcanic and glacial activity - which is obviosuly a couple magnitudes larger in scale.)


## From site
Landlab is a model environment based in Python for the numerical model of landscape models. The software is designed for scientific fields and calculates the dynamics of earth surface such as geomorphology, hydrology, glaciology, stratigraphy and others related.

Landlab components can calculate fluxes like water, sediments, glaciers, volcanic material and landslides. This calculus is made through terrain grids.

Landlab is open source and has been designed to accelerate the development of models providing tools to generate grids, components of interoperable processes and tools for input, output and represent data.


https://landlab.github.io/#/



## Thoughts

I think we could create algorithms based on this - depending on the speed of erosion simulations.

Actually, what we could do is maybe train machine learning algs, have each one drive a plot, record the pathing, update LandLab terrain, and then preform a simulation for X years on the effected terrain.

This might cause my computer to light on fire, but that would be worth it. I wonder if anyone else has done machine learning and pathfinding like this? I would assume so, very similar problem scope to self driving cars.
