# Wednesday, March 25, 2020

I decided that the best thing to do would be to try and do some research every once and a while. This is an article I read between my other projects this week. I just need to remeber to keep researching from time to time.

https://www.hindawi.com/journals/tswj/2014/404059/

Very interesting paper, effectively covers the network architecture for self driving tractors (RHEA system).

Does not cover anything on erosion - but from this we may be able to consider the full potential of percision movements - how much control do developers have over concerns of track-erosion?

## Abstract
Computer-based sensors and actuators such as global positioning systems, machine vision, and laser-based sensors have progressively been incorporated into mobile robots with the aim of configuring autonomous systems capable of shifting operator activities in agricultural tasks. However, the incorporation of many electronic systems into a robot impairs its reliability and increases its cost. Hardware minimization, as well as software minimization and ease of integration, is essential to obtain feasible robotic systems. A step forward in the application of automatic equipment in agriculture is the use of fleets of robots, in which a number of specialized robots collaborate to accomplish one or several agricultural tasks. This paper strives to develop a system architecture for both individual robots and robots working in fleets to improve reliability, decrease complexity and costs, and permit the integration of software from different developers. Several solutions are studied, from a fully distributed to a whole integrated architecture in which a central computer runs all processes. This work also studies diverse topologies for controlling fleets of robots and advances other prospective topologies. The architecture presented in this paper is being successfully applied in the RHEA fleet, which comprises three ground mobile units based on a commercial tractor chassis.

