# Tuesday, April 28, 2020 - Contour Planning

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/235984970_Contour_Planting_A_Strategy_to_Reduce_Soil_Erosion_on_Steep_Slopes


Again, it appears a lot of work has already been done! This paper outlines GPS guided tilling machines and contour planning to reduce soil erosion on steep slopes. This is _exactly_ what our client is looking for.

This also captures some nice statistical elements - such as planning and modelling for 100 year storms.

## Abstract

Practices that combine GPS-based guidance for terrain contouring and tillage for runoff detention have potential to increase water infiltration and reduce runoff. The objective of this study was to investigate contour planting as a means to reduce soil erosion on steep slopes of the Columbia Plateau dryland wheat region. An exploratory field study was conducted on a Ritzville silt loam (coarsesilty, mixed, superactive, mesic Calcidic Haploxerolls) and 0-20 percent slopes. Planting was performed with a deep furrow drill on the contour to a depth of 20 cm. Our results demonsrate that a strip of deep-furrow seeding precisely contoured on the upper shoulder slope should provide sufficient detention storage to capture and hold the runoff from a 100-yr 24-h storm if the contour strip area was approximately 2 % of the runoff collection area. This research also examined artificial neural networks for generating routing maps that optimize seeding on precise, GPS-guided contours. A contouring algorithm was evaluated in which the direction of a tractor is determined by contour-based neural activity whereby neurons corresponding to regions of the terrain of similar height to that of the tractor’s current position receive the greatest excitatory input. The contour region, therefore, has the global effect of influencing the whole state space to attract the tractor in the right direction. Keywords: contour planting, soil erosion, artificial neural networks


## Deeper dive - Wednesday, April 29, 2020
Cf Torisu et al. (2002), Ashraf et al. (2003), Zhu et al. (2005)
All used ANN for incline, slipage, velocity, rate-of-steering control


> A discrete 2-D surface of 
a DEM forms the structure for the ANN (Fig. 2).  Lateral connections between 
neurons become adjacent connections to neighboring cells

How do they model erosion though?

>  Further research is needed to evaluate the effectiveness of precision 
contouring with a deep furrow drill in providing resistance to water erosion.

Ah, voodoo. They discuss a few equations used, but overall don't provide enough content to make the study reproducible. 


>  A field study was conducted in a farm field near Echo, Oregon on and 
above the shoulder position of a 30% hill slope.  The climate is semiarid with 
average annual precipitation of 280 mm (11-in) with most falling October through 
March.  Soils are derived from loess parent material and are classified as Ritzville 
silt loam (coarse silty, mixed, superactive, mesic Calcidic  Haploxerolls).  The 
field has been in a summer fallow-winter wheat rotation where the primary tillage 
consists of disking or chiseling, followed by cultivation and rodweeding 
operations.  The study was conducted in the fallow phase of the rotation. 


There is a lot more information here than I would have expected based on conversations with our client. 

## Some questions

Is this model robust enough to be translated to other climates and terrains?
How effectively does it determine erosion potential?
How do you effectively measure contour accuracy against erosion potential?
What ANN architecture did they create? They mention how ANN's work but thats kind of insulting to be honest... Cf past Cfs on older ANN archs.

It may be more effective to pair an ANN with a reward based network - in any case I'm sure there is a lot of literature on self driving cars that this paper had no access to (published in 2010, it's been a while!)

